---
title: "A survey on detection and localisation of false data injection attacks in smart grids"
collection: publications
category: manuscripts
permalink: /publication/survey_fdia_localization
excerpt: '**Irfan, Muhammad**, Alireza Sadighian, Adeen Tanveer, Shaikha J. Al-Naimi, Gabriele Oligeri. "A survey on detection and localisation of false data injection attacks in smart grids." IET Cyber-Physical Systems: Theory & Applications, 9(4): 313-333, 2024.'
date: 2024-05-26
venue: 'IET Cyber-Physical Systems: Theory & Applications'
paperurl: 'https://ietresearch.onlinelibrary.wiley.com/doi/full/10.1049/cps2.12093'
---
## Abstract
In the recent years, cyberattacks to smart grids are becoming more frequent. Among the many malicious activities that can be launched against smart grids, the False Data Injection (FDI) attacks have raised significant concerns from both academia and industry. FDI attacks can affect the (internal) state estimation process—critical for smart grid monitoring and control—thus being able to bypass conventional Bad Data Detection (BDD) methods. Hence, prompt detection and precise localisation of FDI attacks are becoming of paramount importance to ensure smart grids security and safety. Several papers recently started to study and analyse this topic from different perspectives and address existing challenges. Data-driven techniques and mathematical modelling are the major ingredients of the proposed approaches. The primary objective is to provide a systematic review and insights into FDI attacks joint detection and localisation approaches considering that other surveys mainly concentrated on the detection aspects without detailed coverage of localisation aspects. For this purpose, more than 40 major research contributions were selected and inspected, while conducting a detailed analysis of the methodology and objectives in relation to the FDI attacks detection and localisation. Key findings of the identified papers were provided according to different criteria, such as employed FDI attacks localisation techniques, utilised evaluation scenarios, investigated FDI attack types, application scenarios, adopted methodologies and the use of additional data. Finally, open issues and future research directions were discussed.